README.md, before:

# abeltramo/retroarch-remote

Running [RetroArch](https://www.retroarch.com/) on Docker with [Sunshine](https://github.com/loki-47-6F-64/sunshine) so that you can connecting to it using [Moonlight](https://moonlight-stream.org/) on any supported client.


## Quickstart

```
sudo docker run --privileged -it --rm --name retroarch --net=host \
    --volume /run/user/$(id -u)/pulse:/run/user/1000/pulse \
    --env RESOLUTION=1920x1080x24 \
    --env LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG \
    abeltramo/retroarch
```

## How to use

On the host check that PulseAudio is up and running for the root user
```console
sudo pacat -vvvv /dev/urandom

Opening a playback stream with sample specification 's16le 2ch 44100Hz' and channel map 'front-left,front-right'.
Connection established.
Stream successfully created.
Buffer metrics: maxlength=4194304, tlength=352800, prebuf=349276, minreq=3528
Using sample spec 's16le 2ch 44100Hz', channel map 'front-left,front-right'.
Connected to device alsa_output.pci-0000_02_0c.0.analog-stereo (index: 0, suspended: no).
Stream started.
...
```

If it's not running you can start it for root (NON PERMANENT SOLUTION)
```console
sudo pulseaudio -D
```

Make sure that /dev/uinput have the correct permissions.
Try following this: https://github.com/chrippa/ds4drv/issues/93#issuecomment-265300511
(On Debian I had to modify `/etc/modules-load.d/modules.conf`, adding `/etc/modules-load.d/uinput.conf` didn't trigger anything to me)
```console
ls -la /dev/uinput
crw-rw---- 1 $USER input 10, 223 Jun  9 08:57 /dev/uinput # Check that $USER is not root but your current user
```
Non permanent fix:
```console
sudo chmod 0660 /dev/uinput
```

## Run it

You can either build the docker image or use the pre-built one available at [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/abeltramo/retroarch-docker).

To build it locally run:

```console
sudo docker build -t abeltramo/retroarch .
```

Start it

```console
sudo docker run --privileged -it --rm --name retroarch --net=host \
    --volume /run/user/$(id -u)/pulse:/run/user/1000/pulse \
    --env RESOLUTION=1920x1080x24 \
    --env LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG \
    abeltramo/retroarch
```

Visit https://localhost:47990/ for the web config view
Validate pin on Moonlight Connection (on server)
```console
curl localhost:47989/pin/XXXX
```

Commit message:

Separated xvfb from sunshine, added screenshots

README.md, after:

# abeltramo/retroarch-remote

Running [RetroArch](https://www.retroarch.com/) on Docker with [Sunshine](https://github.com/loki-47-6F-64/sunshine) so that you can connect to it using [Moonlight](https://moonlight-stream.org/) on any supported client.

![Screenshot of DOOM](screen/DOOM.png)

## Quickstart

```console
sudo docker run --privileged -it --rm --name retroarch --net=host \
    --volume /run/user/$(id -u)/pulse:/run/user/1000/pulse \
    --env RESOLUTION=1920x1080x24 \
    --env LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG \
    abeltramo/retroarch
```

Connect over Moonlight by manually adding the IP address of the PC running the Docker container. To validate the PIN you can use the Sunshine web interface (at `https://<IP>:47990/`) or directly calling: `curl <IP>:47989/pin/0706`.

From Moonlight start RetroArch, you should be able to see the main UI:

![Screenshot of RetroArch UI](screen/RetroArch-First-UI.png)


## RetroArch first time configuration

> Using the keyboard you can move using the arrows and get back to the previous menu by pressing backspace

Start RetroArch, from the **Main Menu** > **Online Updater** and 
- Update Core Info Files
- Update assets

Get back to **Settings** > **Video** > **Fullscreen Mode** set **Start in Fullscreen Mode** to **ON**

This should make the window take the full screen, giving you a nice results like:

![Screenshot of RetroArch UI](screen/RetroArch-UI.png)

## Host troubleshooting

On the host check that PulseAudio is up and running for the root user
```console
sudo pacat -vvvv /dev/urandom

Opening a playback stream with sample specification 's16le 2ch 44100Hz' and channel map 'front-left,front-right'.
Connection established.
Stream successfully created.
Buffer metrics: maxlength=4194304, tlength=352800, prebuf=349276, minreq=3528
Using sample spec 's16le 2ch 44100Hz', channel map 'front-left,front-right'.
Connected to device alsa_output.pci-0000_02_0c.0.analog-stereo (index: 0, suspended: no).
Stream started.
...
```

If it's not running you can start it for root (NON PERMANENT SOLUTION)
```console
sudo pulseaudio -D
```

Make sure that /dev/uinput have the correct permissions.
Try following this: https://github.com/chrippa/ds4drv/issues/93#issuecomment-265300511
(On Debian I had to modify `/etc/modules-load.d/modules.conf`, adding `/etc/modules-load.d/uinput.conf` didn't trigger anything to me)
```console
ls -la /dev/uinput
crw-rw---- 1 $USER input 10, 223 Jun  9 08:57 /dev/uinput # Check that $USER is not root but your current user
```
Non permanent fix:
```console
sudo chmod 0660 /dev/uinput
```

## Docker build

You can either build the docker image or use the pre-built one available at [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/abeltramo/retroarch).

To build it locally run:

```console
sudo docker build -t abeltramo/retroarch .
```
