docs/modules/ROOT/pages/docker-build.adoc, before:

== Docker build

So you don’t trust downloading Docker images from the web, eh? You are
right! No one should trust _the internet_!

Our images are built and pushed using Github Actions. You can manually
check if the images are being tampered by doing the followings:

* Head over to the https://github.com/games-on-whales/gow/runs/[`Actions`] section on Github and open up the build that you want to check
* For each generated Docker image there’s a step called `Image digest` –
this is the sha256 checksum of the image generated on Github
* Head over to the https://hub.docker.com/layers/gameonwhales/xorg/sha-98e5080/images/sha256-6b8555260ed07c7ed466e0b821922a3cedf4ee27b9d6b8fea9d6aa2995b75f61?context=repo[Docker hub] and check that the sha256 checksum for the image and the sha256 checksum for the commit are the same as it’s displayed in Github

=== Example

Here’s an example from the commit
https://github.com/games-on-whales/gow/commit/98e508019247f8aecd82db9ffb4320f00de4e1dc[`98e5080`]
The associated
https://github.com/games-on-whales/gow/runs/2945887498#step:7:1[Github
Action] for the `xorg` image reports:

[source,bash]
....
xorg > sha256:6b8555260ed07c7ed466e0b821922a3cedf4ee27b9d6b8fea9d6aa2995b75f61
....

The
https://hub.docker.com/layers/gameonwhales/xorg/sha-98e5080/images/sha256-6b8555260ed07c7ed466e0b821922a3cedf4ee27b9d6b8fea9d6aa2995b75f61?context=repo[image
layer details] on the Docker Hub reports:

[source,bash]
....
gameonwhales/xorg:sha-98e5080
Digest:sha256:6b8555260ed07c7ed466e0b821922a3cedf4ee27b9d6b8fea9d6aa2995b75f61
....

=== I don’t trust you, let me build the images myself

You sure can! We use docker buildkit – make sure it’s installed in your
environment. In order to build it locally run:

[source,bash]
....
sudo COMPOSE_DOCKER_CLI_BUILD=1 DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 docker-compose build
....

Commit message:

some run-gow updates: add comments, refactor for readability, add --env-file option, check for a compatible docker-compose version. update docs to refer to run-gow instead of docker-compose directly.

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/docker-build.adoc, after:

== Docker build

So you don’t trust downloading Docker images from the web, eh? You are
right! No one should trust _the internet_!

Our images are built and pushed using Github Actions. You can manually
check if the images are being tampered by doing the followings:

* Head over to the https://github.com/games-on-whales/gow/runs/[`Actions`] section on Github and open up the build that you want to check
* For each generated Docker image there’s a step called `Image digest` –
this is the sha256 checksum of the image generated on Github
* Head over to the https://hub.docker.com/layers/gameonwhales/xorg/sha-98e5080/images/sha256-6b8555260ed07c7ed466e0b821922a3cedf4ee27b9d6b8fea9d6aa2995b75f61?context=repo[Docker hub] and check that the sha256 checksum for the image and the sha256 checksum for the commit are the same as it’s displayed in Github

=== Example

Here’s an example from the commit
https://github.com/games-on-whales/gow/commit/98e508019247f8aecd82db9ffb4320f00de4e1dc[`98e5080`]
The associated
https://github.com/games-on-whales/gow/runs/2945887498#step:7:1[Github
Action] for the `xorg` image reports:

[source,bash]
....
xorg > sha256:6b8555260ed07c7ed466e0b821922a3cedf4ee27b9d6b8fea9d6aa2995b75f61
....

The
https://hub.docker.com/layers/gameonwhales/xorg/sha-98e5080/images/sha256-6b8555260ed07c7ed466e0b821922a3cedf4ee27b9d6b8fea9d6aa2995b75f61?context=repo[image
layer details] on the Docker Hub reports:

[source,bash]
....
gameonwhales/xorg:sha-98e5080
Digest:sha256:6b8555260ed07c7ed466e0b821922a3cedf4ee27b9d6b8fea9d6aa2995b75f61
....

=== I don’t trust you, let me build the images myself

You sure can! We use docker buildkit – make sure it’s installed in your
environment. In order to build it locally run:

[source,bash]
....
sudo COMPOSE_DOCKER_CLI_BUILD=1 DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 run-gow [options] build
....

You should call `run-gow` with the same options you plan to run apps with; specifically, be sure to use the right combination of `--gpu`, `--headless`, and `--app`.
