docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-to-use.adoc, before:

== How can I use GOW?

Out of the box, by using the `docker-compose` default configuration, you
should be able to run `RetroArch` and play games remotely from another
machine. It’s all taken care from you and you only have to run the
following:

[source,bash]
....
git clone https://github.com/games-on-whales/gow.git
cd gow
mkdir local_state
sudo docker-compose pull
sudo docker-compose up
....

=== Can I use it for something else?

You should be able to run any Graphical Application on top of the basic
combination of `Xorg` + `PulseAudio` + `Sunshine`. For example: if you
replace `RetroArch` with the following in the `docker-compose.yml` file
you should be able to navigate the web using Firefox!

[source,yaml]
----
firefox:
depends_on: 
    - xorg
    - pulse
    - sunshine
image: andrewmackrodt/firefox-x11
volumes:       
    - xorg:/tmp/.X11-unix
    # This image needs these folders, 
    # we can easily pass a local folder instead.
    # just make sure to chomd -R ${id}:${id} ./local_state
    - ${local_state}/ffox:/run/user/1000
    - ${local_state}/.config/pulse:/home/ubuntu/.config/pulse:ro
environment: 
    DISPLAY: ":0"
    LOG_LEVEL: info
    PULSE_SERVER: pulse # The name of the pulse container is the hostname in the virtual network
----

A few things to note: - This is an image that we didn’t built:
https://github.com/andrewmackrodt/dockerfiles/tree/master/firefox-x11[`andrewmackrodt/firefox-x11`]
it’s an open source Dockerfile and image. It’s a great example of
running a container which wasn’t built with GOW in mind.

* This container doesn’t need to be run with `privileged: true` nor
`network_mode: host`. This is because mouse and keyboard events are
handled by `Xorg` and passing the `X11` socket is enough to have display
and inputs
** This increases security for non trusted containers by restricting the
things they can access
** If you would like to also have joypad support you’ll have to use
`privileged` and `host` network just like in the `RetroArch` example

The main advantage is that if you have a desktop environment already,
you can run this Firefox container even without using any of the GOW
parts because you already have `Xorg`, `PulseAudio`, and possibly a
keyboard and mouse connected.

If you don’t have a desktop environment, or you would like to have a
remote desktop solution that *is faster* than VNC or RDP that lets you
run GUI *with HW acceleration*, then *GOW* is the solution for you!

And it lets you re-use docker containers that can be run in both
environments!

https://blog.jessfraz.com/post/docker-containers-on-the-desktop/#guis[Heres a blog post] with a few GUI docker containers like:

* Chrome
* Spotify
* Gparted
* Skype

🚀 The sky is the limit! 🚀

Commit message:

some run-gow updates: add comments, refactor for readability, add --env-file option, check for a compatible docker-compose version. update docs to refer to run-gow instead of docker-compose directly.

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-to-use.adoc, after:

== How can I use GOW?

Out of the box, by using the `docker-compose` default configuration, you
should be able to run `RetroArch` and play games remotely from another
machine. It’s all taken care from you and you only have to run the
following:

[source,bash]
....
git clone https://github.com/games-on-whales/gow.git
cd gow
mkdir local_state
run-gow [--headless] --app retroarch up -d
....

=== Can I use it for something else?

You should be able to run any Graphical Application on top of the basic
combination of `Xorg` + `PulseAudio` + `Sunshine`.  We supply compose files for
`steam`, `retroarch`, and `firefox` by default, but you can use them as
templates to create your own.  Then, you can use `--app [your app]` as an
argument to `run-gow` to launch your app.

A few things to note:
- This is an image that we didn’t built:
  https://github.com/andrewmackrodt/dockerfiles/tree/master/firefox-x11[`andrewmackrodt/firefox-x11`]
  it’s an open source Dockerfile and image. It’s a great example of running a
  container which wasn’t built with GOW in mind.

* This container doesn’t need to be run with `privileged: true` nor
`network_mode: host`. This is because mouse and keyboard events are
handled by `Xorg` and passing the `X11` socket is enough to have display
and inputs
** This increases security for non trusted containers by restricting the
things they can access
** If you would like to also have joypad support you’ll have to use
`privileged` and `host` network just like in the `RetroArch` example

The main advantage is that if you have a desktop environment already,
you can run this Firefox container even without using any of the GOW
parts because you already have `Xorg`, `PulseAudio`, and possibly a
keyboard and mouse connected.

If you don’t have a desktop environment, or you would like to have a
remote desktop solution that *is faster* than VNC or RDP that lets you
run GUI *with HW acceleration*, then *GOW* is the solution for you!

And it lets you re-use docker containers that can be run in both
environments!

https://blog.jessfraz.com/post/docker-containers-on-the-desktop/#guis[Heres a blog post] with a few GUI docker containers like:

* Chrome
* Spotify
* Gparted
* Skype

🚀 The sky is the limit! 🚀
