docs/modules/ROOT/pages/overview.adoc, before:

= Overview

*Games on Whales (GOW)* lets you stream games (and other graphical
applications) running in Docker containers with hardware acceleration and low
latency.

The goal is to allow a
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_(computing)[server] to stream
games to clients the same way you play a video on YouTube.  A server is not
necessarily a
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/69/Wikimedia_Foundation_Servers-8055_35.jpg[gigantic beast of a machine];
in fact, GoW will probably run on hardware you already have, such as a laptop
or desktop computer, or even something smaller and compact like a Raspberry Pi
(https://github.com/games-on-whales/gow/issues/20[in theory]).

NOTE: Generally, you should be able to pick any OS that supports
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Docker_(software)[Docker] and start using
GoW, but testing and development are focused on Linux-based systems.

== How does it work?

We bring together a few different components:

Platform::
Most of the software in the Games on Whales system runs in
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Docker_(software)[Docker] containers.
Containers are software packages that are designed to make installation and
configuration easy by providing a consistent platform everywhere the package is
run.
+
You can choose to run GoW in either Host Desktop mode, or Headless mode.  In
Headless mode, we run a few platform containers for you:

* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X.Org_Server[Xorg]: The famous windowing system
for managing and displaying graphical applications
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graphical_user_interface[GUI])
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PulseAudio[PulseAudio]: A sound server that can
manage audio coming from multiple sources (apps).

+
In Host Desktop mode, we expect the host server to provide those pieces.

Streaming Server::
GoW streams running apps to clients using NVIDIA's GameStream protocol.  We
provide a choice of two open-source server implementations.
+
NOTE: Although NVIDIA has announced that they are ending support for GameStream
in early 2023, these open-source implementations (and thus GoW itself) do not
rely on any NVIDIA support or infrastructure and will continue to work even
after that date.

* https://github.com/LizardByte/Sunshine[Sunshine]: The original open-source
GameStream host, and still the most well-tested. Use this if you're unsure
which one to pick.
* https://github.com/games-on-whales/wolf[Wolf]: A new GameStream host, still
in alpha.

Client::
https://moonlight-stream.org/[Moonlight] is an open-source GameStream protocol
client.  Moonlight runs on many platforms, including: mobile phones, laptops,
desktops, Steam Deck, and even the Nintendo Switch!
+
NOTE: Moonlight is not distributed with GoW.  You'll need to install it on each
device you plan to use as a client for playing games.

Applications::
The GoW system aims to be compatible with as many GUI app containers as
possible.  Here's a selection of the ones we provide, though adding more is a
very straightforward process.

* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RetroArch[RetroArch]: An open source,
cross-platform frontend for emulators, game engines, and more!
* https://store.steampowered.com/[Steam]: The popular game store and launcher,
now sandboxed in a container
* https://www.firefox.com[Firefox]: A modern web browser

image::ROOT:gow-diagram.svg[]

Head over to the xref:components-overview.adoc[components overview] if you are interested in how these pieces of software are tied together by GOW

Commit message:

docs: updated and added deprecation notice to `run-gow` script

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/overview.adoc, after:

= Overview

WARNING: Historically, this was the first attempt that we've made at running games in Docker. https://github.com/games-on-whales/wolf[Wolf] has now completely replaced the simple bash script present in this repo.

*Games on Whales (GOW)* lets you stream games (and other graphical
applications) running in Docker containers with hardware acceleration and low
latency.

The goal is to allow a
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_(computing)[server] to stream
games to clients the same way you play a video on YouTube.  A server is not
necessarily a
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/69/Wikimedia_Foundation_Servers-8055_35.jpg[gigantic beast of a machine];
in fact, GoW will probably run on hardware you already have, such as a laptop
or desktop computer, or even something smaller and compact like a Raspberry Pi
(https://github.com/games-on-whales/gow/issues/20[in theory]).

NOTE: Generally, you should be able to pick any OS that supports
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Docker_(software)[Docker] and start using
GoW, but testing and development are focused on Linux-based systems.

== How does it work?

We bring together a few different components:

Platform::
Most of the software in the Games on Whales system runs in
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Docker_(software)[Docker] containers.
Containers are software packages that are designed to make installation and
configuration easy by providing a consistent platform everywhere the package is
run.
+
You can choose to run GoW in either Host Desktop mode, or Headless mode.  In
Headless mode, we run a few platform containers for you:

* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X.Org_Server[Xorg]: The famous windowing system
for managing and displaying graphical applications
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graphical_user_interface[GUI])
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PulseAudio[PulseAudio]: A sound server that can
manage audio coming from multiple sources (apps).

+
In Host Desktop mode, we expect the host server to provide those pieces.

Streaming Server::
GoW streams running apps to clients using NVIDIA's GameStream protocol.  We
provide a choice of two open-source server implementations.
+
NOTE: Although NVIDIA has announced that they are ending support for GameStream
in early 2023, these open-source implementations (and thus GoW itself) do not
rely on any NVIDIA support or infrastructure and will continue to work even
after that date.

* https://github.com/LizardByte/Sunshine[Sunshine]: The original open-source
GameStream host, and still the most well-tested. Use this if you're unsure
which one to pick.
* https://github.com/games-on-whales/wolf[Wolf]: A new GameStream host, still
in alpha.

Client::
https://moonlight-stream.org/[Moonlight] is an open-source GameStream protocol
client.  Moonlight runs on many platforms, including: mobile phones, laptops,
desktops, Steam Deck, and even the Nintendo Switch!
+
NOTE: Moonlight is not distributed with GoW.  You'll need to install it on each
device you plan to use as a client for playing games.

Applications::
The GoW system aims to be compatible with as many GUI app containers as
possible.  Here's a selection of the ones we provide, though adding more is a
very straightforward process.

* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RetroArch[RetroArch]: An open source,
cross-platform frontend for emulators, game engines, and more!
* https://store.steampowered.com/[Steam]: The popular game store and launcher,
now sandboxed in a container
* https://www.firefox.com[Firefox]: A modern web browser

image::ROOT:gow-diagram.svg[]

Head over to the xref:components-overview.adoc[components overview] if you are interested in how these pieces of software are tied together by GOW
