docs/modules/ROOT/pages/run-gow.adoc, before:

= `run-gow`

Games on Whales ties together several different components, with support for
many host OSes and hardware configurations.  In order to make it easier to
manage all that, and even make most of it automatic, we've provided a Bash
script to handle the details for you.

You can think of `run-gow` as a frontend for `docker-compose`; it takes some of
its own arguments at the beginning, but passes everything else on untouched.
The complete usage description is below, but first let's talk about a few of
the options you're definitely going to want to set.

== `--platform`

The `--platform` option is used to specify whether the underlying Xorg and
Pulse platform is provided by the host computer, or if GoW should launch
containers for those components.

Use `--platform host` to use the host's platform, or `--platform headless` to
launch the platform in containers.  The default is `--platform host`.

== `--gpu`

Some GPUs require extra configuration, so the `--gpu` option is available to
tell `run-gow` which GPU you plan on using.  Possible values are `nvidia` and
`intel`. Notably, AMD GPUs are reported to be working well without any
additional configuration, so you won't need this option if you're using AMD.

IMPORTANT: If you're running headless and you have more than one GPU, including
if you have a dedicated GPU and an iGPU, you may need to manually tell Xorg
which GPU to use. See xref:primary-gpu.adoc[here] for details on how to do
that.  You should set the `--gpu` option appropriately for the GPU you plan to
use.

== `--app`

By default, if you launch GoW and connect with Moonlight, you'll only see a
basic desktop.  However, it's likely that you have at least one application in
mind that you'd like to launch, and you can use the `--app` argument to specify
that.  Supported apps can be found in the `compose/apps` directory; just leave
off the `.yml`:

[source,bash]
....
$ ./run-gow --app steam
....

You can specify `--app [app name]` as many times as you like, if you want to
launch multiple applications.

.`run-gow` Usage
[%collapsible]
====
....
Launch the Games on Whales system

Usage: run-gow [options] [compose commands]
Arguments after the last option will be passed directly to 'docker compose'.
For example, to launch the containers in the background, try:
  $ run-gow --app retroarch up -d

Options:
  -h, --help
      Print this help text.

  -a, --app <app name>
      Specify an application to launch. Can be used multiple times.

  -d, --debug
      Print some extra debugging information before running Docker commands.

  -e, --env-file <file>
      Specify an additional file of environment varibles to load before launching 'docker compose'.

  -g, --gpu <type>
      Use this option to specify what type of GPU to use with Games on Whales. Not
      all GPU types require this option (notably, AMD does not).
      Possible types:
        nvidia, intel

  -p, --platform
      Use this option to specify whether system services like Xorg should be containerized or not.
      Possible values:
        headless     - run xorg, udev, and pulse in containers
        host         - use system services already running on the host server [default]

  -q, --quiet
      If set, this script will not produce any output of its own. This will not affect output from 'docker compose'.

  -s, --streamer
      Use this option to specify which streaming server should be used to connect with Moonlight.
      Possible values:
        sunshine     - the original, more stable option [default]
        wolf         - the bleeding edge option. still in beta.

  -x, --headless
      DEPRECATED.  If set, has the same effect as '--platform headless'

  --
      Signifies the end of options.
....
====

== `run-gow-rc`

Once you've got your system set up how you like it, you'll find that many of
the options you provide to `run-gow` won't actually change very frequently, if
at all.  In order to cut down on the repetitiveness of always having to type
those arguments every time you use `run-gow`, we've provided a mechanism to
supply a set of "default arguments".

You can do that by creating a file called `$HOME/.config/gow/run-gow-rc` that
contains the defaults you'd like to use.  The script will use the first
non-empty, non-commented line as defaults each time you run, and any extra
arugments you provide on the command line will override what's in the
`run-gow-rc` file.

For example, if you set your `run-gow-rc` to this:
[source]
....
--platform headless --gpu nvidia
....

and run:
[source]
....
$ ./run-gow --app steam up
....

`run-gow` will launch Steam in headless mode with NVIDIA GPU.

Commit message:

docs: updated and added deprecation notice to `run-gow` script

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/run-gow.adoc, after:

= `run-gow`

WARNING: Historically, this was the first attempt that we've made at running games in Docker. https://github.com/games-on-whales/wolf[Wolf] has now completely replaced the simple bash script present in this repo.

Games on Whales ties together several different components, with support for
many host OSes and hardware configurations.  In order to make it easier to
manage all that, and even make most of it automatic, we've provided a Bash
script to handle the details for you.

You can think of `run-gow` as a frontend for `docker-compose`; it takes some of
its own arguments at the beginning, but passes everything else on untouched.
The complete usage description is below, but first let's talk about a few of
the options you're definitely going to want to set.

== `--platform`

The `--platform` option is used to specify whether the underlying Xorg and
Pulse platform is provided by the host computer, or if GoW should launch
containers for those components.

Use `--platform host` to use the host's platform, or `--platform headless` to
launch the platform in containers.  The default is `--platform host`.

== `--gpu`

Some GPUs require extra configuration, so the `--gpu` option is available to
tell `run-gow` which GPU you plan on using.  Possible values are `nvidia` and
`intel`. Notably, AMD GPUs are reported to be working well without any
additional configuration, so you won't need this option if you're using AMD.

IMPORTANT: If you're running headless and you have more than one GPU, including
if you have a dedicated GPU and an iGPU, you may need to manually tell Xorg
which GPU to use. See xref:primary-gpu.adoc[here] for details on how to do
that.  You should set the `--gpu` option appropriately for the GPU you plan to
use.

== `--app`

By default, if you launch GoW and connect with Moonlight, you'll only see a
basic desktop.  However, it's likely that you have at least one application in
mind that you'd like to launch, and you can use the `--app` argument to specify
that.  Supported apps can be found in the `compose/apps` directory; just leave
off the `.yml`:

[source,bash]
....
$ ./run-gow --app steam
....

You can specify `--app [app name]` as many times as you like, if you want to
launch multiple applications.

.`run-gow` Usage
[%collapsible]
====
....
Launch the Games on Whales system

Usage: run-gow [options] [compose commands]
Arguments after the last option will be passed directly to 'docker compose'.
For example, to launch the containers in the background, try:
  $ run-gow --app retroarch up -d

Options:
  -h, --help
      Print this help text.

  -a, --app <app name>
      Specify an application to launch. Can be used multiple times.

  -d, --debug
      Print some extra debugging information before running Docker commands.

  -e, --env-file <file>
      Specify an additional file of environment varibles to load before launching 'docker compose'.

  -g, --gpu <type>
      Use this option to specify what type of GPU to use with Games on Whales. Not
      all GPU types require this option (notably, AMD does not).
      Possible types:
        nvidia, intel

  -p, --platform
      Use this option to specify whether system services like Xorg should be containerized or not.
      Possible values:
        headless     - run xorg, udev, and pulse in containers
        host         - use system services already running on the host server [default]

  -q, --quiet
      If set, this script will not produce any output of its own. This will not affect output from 'docker compose'.

  -s, --streamer
      Use this option to specify which streaming server should be used to connect with Moonlight.
      Possible values:
        sunshine     - the original, more stable option [default]
        wolf         - the bleeding edge option. still in beta.

  -x, --headless
      DEPRECATED.  If set, has the same effect as '--platform headless'

  --
      Signifies the end of options.
....
====

== `run-gow-rc`

Once you've got your system set up how you like it, you'll find that many of
the options you provide to `run-gow` won't actually change very frequently, if
at all.  In order to cut down on the repetitiveness of always having to type
those arguments every time you use `run-gow`, we've provided a mechanism to
supply a set of "default arguments".

You can do that by creating a file called `$HOME/.config/gow/run-gow-rc` that
contains the defaults you'd like to use.  The script will use the first
non-empty, non-commented line as defaults each time you run, and any extra
arugments you provide on the command line will override what's in the
`run-gow-rc` file.

For example, if you set your `run-gow-rc` to this:
[source]
....
--platform headless --gpu nvidia
....

and run:
[source]
....
$ ./run-gow --app steam up
....

`run-gow` will launch Steam in headless mode with NVIDIA GPU.
