docs/modules/ROOT/pages/troubleshooting.adoc, before:

:experimental:

== Troubleshooting

Here’s a list of common problems, feel free to
https://github.com/games-on-whales/gow/issues/new[open an issue] if
something is not listed here.

IMPORTANT: In order for Sunshine to stream your desktop you have to *have a monitor plugged* (or use a dummy plug).

=== Intel iGPU

The intel iGPU on Linux isn’t working well with the current Sunshine
version, this is a known issue. You can follow the development on the
open https://github.com/SunshineStream/Sunshine/pull/77[pull request].

You can still try to use software encoding instead by forcing it on the
Sunshine configs.

Force the encoder to software

=== Lag, slow, missing frames

You can see more stats in Moonlight during the streaming if you press
kbd:[Ctrl+Alt+Shift+S] (see:
https://github.com/moonlight-stream/moonlight-docs/wiki/Setup-Guide#keyboardmousegamepad-input-options[all
keyboard options]) .

Feel free to https://github.com/games-on-whales/gow/issues/new[open an
issue on Github] or reach out on the
https://discord.gg/kRGUDHNHt2[Discord] channel if you need more help.

=== mkdir: cannot create directory `/home/retro/sunshine/': Permission denied

This means that your `local_state` folder as defined in the `.env` file
is not owned by user 1000. You can fix this by:

[source,bash]
....
sudo chown -R 1000:1000 local_state
....

=== Error: Could not create Sunshine Mouse: No such file or directory

Make sure that `/dev/uinput/` is present in the host and that it does
have the correct permissions:

[source,bash]
....
ls -la /dev/uinput
crw-rw---- 1 $USER input 10, 223 Jun  9 08:57 /dev/uinput # Check that $USER is not root but your current user
....

If that’s not the case try following:

* The official Sunshine instructions about `udev` at:
https://github.com/loki-47-6F-64/sunshine#setup
* The solution proposed at:
https://github.com/chrippa/ds4drv/issues/93#issuecomment-265300511
** (On Debian I had to modify `/etc/modules-load.d/modules.conf`, adding
`/etc/modules-load.d/uinput.conf` didn’t trigger anything to me)

Or if you are in a rush you can run the following:

[source,bash]
....
sudo chmod 0660 /dev/uinput
sudo chown 1000:input /dev/uinput
....

but remember that on startup you’ll have to do it again.

=== I can use my mouse and keyboard but my joypad doesn’t work

If keyboard and mouse are working it means that `uinput`, `Xorg` and
`Sunshine` are correctly working.

Joypad devices are created by `Sunshine` on connection, only if the
client have one attached. Joypads are not handled by `Xorg` but they are
directly accessed by X11 app, that’s why on `RetroArch` we have to use:

[source,yaml]
----
network_mode: host
privileged: true
volumes:
  - /dev/input:/dev/input:ro
  - /run/udev:/run/udev:ro
  - /dev/uinput:/dev/uinput:ro
----

If this is already present in your `docker-compose.yml` you have to
check for file permissions. Make sure that `messagebus` gid inside the
containers maps to `input` gid on your host, in order to do that first
check what’s the gid of the files inside `/dev/input` as seen by the
docker container:

[source,bash]
....
docker exec -it gow_retroarch_1 ls -la /dev/input

drwxr-xr-x  4 root root          380 Jun 30 17:25 .
drwxr-xr-x 13 root root         2940 Jun 30 17:25 ..
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root           80 Jun 27 09:43 by-id
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root          160 Jun 27 09:43 by-path
crw-rw----  1 root messagebus 13, 64 Jun 27 09:43 event0
crw-rw----  1 root messagebus 13, 65 Jun 27 09:43 event1
crw-rw----  1 root messagebus 13, 66 Jun 27 09:43 event2
crw-rw----  1 root messagebus 13, 67 Jun 27 09:43 event3
crw-rw----  1 root messagebus 13, 68 Jun 27 09:43 event4
...
...
....

Then check that the current user inside the container is part of the
`messagebus` group:

[source,bash]
....
docker exec -it gow_retroarch_1 id

uid=1000(retro) gid=1000(retro) groups=1000(retro),105(messagebus)
....

=== RetroArch is missing icons!

TIP: Using the keyboard you can move using the arrows and get back to the
previous menu by pressing backspace

From the *Main Menu* > *Online Updater* select:

* Update Core Info Files
* Update assets

Press kbd:[F] to toggle fullscreen if you need to.

=== How can I get the full logs of Xorg?

Xorg is logging more than what you can see from the command line, you
have to get out the log file at `/var/log/Xorg.0.log` from inside the
Docker container. Running the following should print out the full log
file:

[source,bash]
....
docker exec -it gow_xorg_1 cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log
....

=== Xorg: Failed to acquire modesetting permission

I’m still not sure about this one, it happened to me when trying to
start GOW on a Desktop system when the screen was locked. Unlocking the
screen first and then running GOW solved the issue for me.

https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Kernel_mode_setting#Disabling_modesetting[Disabling
modesetting] might be another way to get around it.

Commit message:

docs: add more details about monitor requirements and using CustomEDID

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/troubleshooting.adoc, after:

:experimental:

== Troubleshooting

Here’s a list of common problems, feel free to
https://github.com/games-on-whales/gow/issues/new[open an issue] if
something is not listed here.

IMPORTANT: In order for Sunshine to be able to stream your desktop, you must meet the xref:monitor.adoc[Monitor requirements].

=== Intel iGPU

The intel iGPU on Linux isn’t working well with the current Sunshine
version, this is a known issue. You can follow the development on the
open https://github.com/SunshineStream/Sunshine/pull/77[pull request].

You can still try to use software encoding instead by forcing it on the
Sunshine configs.

Force the encoder to software

=== Lag, slow, missing frames

You can see more stats in Moonlight during the streaming if you press
kbd:[Ctrl+Alt+Shift+S] (see:
https://github.com/moonlight-stream/moonlight-docs/wiki/Setup-Guide#keyboardmousegamepad-input-options[all
keyboard options]) .

Feel free to https://github.com/games-on-whales/gow/issues/new[open an
issue on Github] or reach out on the
https://discord.gg/kRGUDHNHt2[Discord] channel if you need more help.

=== mkdir: cannot create directory `/home/retro/sunshine/': Permission denied

This means that your `local_state` folder as defined in the `.env` file
is not owned by user 1000. You can fix this by:

[source,bash]
....
sudo chown -R 1000:1000 local_state
....

=== Error: Could not create Sunshine Mouse: No such file or directory

Make sure that `/dev/uinput/` is present in the host and that it does
have the correct permissions:

[source,bash]
....
ls -la /dev/uinput
crw-rw---- 1 $USER input 10, 223 Jun  9 08:57 /dev/uinput # Check that $USER is not root but your current user
....

If that’s not the case try following:

* The official Sunshine instructions about `udev` at:
https://github.com/loki-47-6F-64/sunshine#setup
* The solution proposed at:
https://github.com/chrippa/ds4drv/issues/93#issuecomment-265300511
** (On Debian I had to modify `/etc/modules-load.d/modules.conf`, adding
`/etc/modules-load.d/uinput.conf` didn’t trigger anything to me)

Or if you are in a rush you can run the following:

[source,bash]
....
sudo chmod 0660 /dev/uinput
sudo chown 1000:input /dev/uinput
....

but remember that on startup you’ll have to do it again.

=== I can use my mouse and keyboard but my joypad doesn’t work

If keyboard and mouse are working it means that `uinput`, `Xorg` and
`Sunshine` are correctly working.

Joypad devices are created by `Sunshine` on connection, only if the
client have one attached. Joypads are not handled by `Xorg` but they are
directly accessed by X11 app, that’s why on `RetroArch` we have to use:

[source,yaml]
----
network_mode: host
privileged: true
volumes:
  - /dev/input:/dev/input:ro
  - /run/udev:/run/udev:ro
  - /dev/uinput:/dev/uinput:ro
----

If this is already present in your `docker-compose.yml` you have to
check for file permissions. Make sure that `messagebus` gid inside the
containers maps to `input` gid on your host, in order to do that first
check what’s the gid of the files inside `/dev/input` as seen by the
docker container:

[source,bash]
....
docker exec -it gow_retroarch_1 ls -la /dev/input

drwxr-xr-x  4 root root          380 Jun 30 17:25 .
drwxr-xr-x 13 root root         2940 Jun 30 17:25 ..
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root           80 Jun 27 09:43 by-id
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root          160 Jun 27 09:43 by-path
crw-rw----  1 root messagebus 13, 64 Jun 27 09:43 event0
crw-rw----  1 root messagebus 13, 65 Jun 27 09:43 event1
crw-rw----  1 root messagebus 13, 66 Jun 27 09:43 event2
crw-rw----  1 root messagebus 13, 67 Jun 27 09:43 event3
crw-rw----  1 root messagebus 13, 68 Jun 27 09:43 event4
...
...
....

Then check that the current user inside the container is part of the
`messagebus` group:

[source,bash]
....
docker exec -it gow_retroarch_1 id

uid=1000(retro) gid=1000(retro) groups=1000(retro),105(messagebus)
....

=== RetroArch is missing icons!

TIP: Using the keyboard you can move using the arrows and get back to the
previous menu by pressing backspace

From the *Main Menu* > *Online Updater* select:

* Update Core Info Files
* Update assets

Press kbd:[F] to toggle fullscreen if you need to.

=== How can I get the full logs of Xorg?

Xorg is logging more than what you can see from the command line, you
have to get out the log file at `/var/log/Xorg.0.log` from inside the
Docker container. Running the following should print out the full log
file:

[source,bash]
....
docker exec -it gow_xorg_1 cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log
....

=== Xorg: Failed to acquire modesetting permission

I’m still not sure about this one, it happened to me when trying to
start GOW on a Desktop system when the screen was locked. Unlocking the
screen first and then running GOW solved the issue for me.

https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Kernel_mode_setting#Disabling_modesetting[Disabling
modesetting] might be another way to get around it.
